Story Recapped here.
Today, I'm going to explain a horror and mystery
film called "Mother!".
Spoilers ahead!
Watch out and take care.
A woman stands amid crackling flames, with
a tear falling down her face.
People scream as her flesh burns to a crisp.
Meanwhile, after his first wife's death, a
man named "Him" is a well-known poet suffering
from writer's block.
With his hands covered with dusty charcoal,
he puts a crystal piece in his office.
The house then goes from being burned down
and rundown to being a wholly renovated home.
A young woman named "Mother,” appears in
his bed and, upon noticing his absence, calls
out to him, calling him “Baby.”
He doesn't respond so, and she walks through
every part of the seemingly deserted house.
As she steps out onto the porch to check on
him, he surprises her by approaching from
behind and hugging her.
Mother asks Him why he didn’t wake her up,
to which he responds that he wanted to be
alone to clear up his head for his writing.
She kisses him, trying to be intimate, but
he refuses and gets himself into the shower
instead.
She goes back to the house and continues renovating
it.
Mother attempts to paint one of its rooms
in a variety of bright colors.
As she approaches the wall, she notices scratches
on it and sees a vision of a pulsating heart
within it.
That night, Mother joins her husband in his
office while he is working on his novel.
She silently observes him as he is trying
to formulate some ideas when suddenly, someone
knocks on their front door.
A stranger named "Man" introduces himself
as an orthopedic surgeon.
The writer openly welcomes the stranger into
their home without asking his wife, and he
even offers some drinks.
The writer is courteous to Man, but Mother
is not pleased with his presence.
She offers to make them some tea while the
two continue chatting about her.
The Man presumes that she is his daughter.
While Mother makes tea, she experiences dizziness
and hears a loud ringing in her ears, causing
her to drop the cup and make a mess.
The ringing suddenly stops.
She serves the tea and joins their conversation.
The Man directs their house under the impression
that it was a bed-and-breakfast.
The stranger will stay as long as he finishes
his research as a doctor.
The writer invites the stranger to spending
the night in their house for a while as the
house is too big for the two of them alone.
Mother looks surprised at how his husband
impulsively acts in the situation, but she
can't do anything.
She reluctantly agrees to let the stranger
stay.
As she sees the Man about to light his cigarette,
she informs him that smoking is not allowed
inside the house.
Later that night, while Mother is in the basement
to grab some linens for the visitor, she hears
soft rumbles in the dark.
She checks it and sees a stone wall, wondering
where the sounds are coming from.
As she approaches the wall, a loud stomp transpires
from it, and the woodstove near her suddenly
lights up with fire.
She goes back upstairs and fixes the guest
room.
Meanwhile, the writer shows the Man his office
filled with his written works.
The Man confesses that he admires his works.
Man notices the crystal piece, and when he
is about to touch it, the writer precedes
to get it, telling the Man that it is a fragile
and extraordinary gift.
He reveals that the crystal is the only thing
left from ashes when everything burned down
by fire when he was younger.
As the Man tries to touch the crystal from
the writer's hand, he holds it tighter as
he continues to tell the Man that it gives
him strength and it brings back life like
how Mother does in his life and their house.
The Mother smiles at Him.
However, the Man only coughs severely loud
and hard.
At midnight, Mother wakes up without Him at
her side.
She rushes through the guest room, and there
she sees her husband comforting the Man as
he continuously coughs his lungs out.
She seems worried and notices a chunk of flesh
missing from the Man's back.
Her husband immediately covers it with his
hand while letting her out of the room.
Despite being baffled, she sees Man's lighter
and tosses it off the drawer.
She hears the ringing once again and hallucinates.
As she walks, the ringing grows louder and
louder.
She heads to the bathroom and makes her yellow
drink to help her hallucinations cease.
Soon enough, the insufferable ringing in her
ears disappears
The next day, Mother inquires about the Man's
well-being.
The writer tells her that the Man feels better,
and he's delighted to have someone to talk
to who appreciates his work.
The Man walks in and lights up his cigarettes
as if nothing happened last night.
He even tells her that he feels terrific.
A few moments later, the doorbell rings from
the entryway.
Mother opens the door, and there appears "Woman,”
who happens to be Man's wife.
Man greets her with kisses, and Him invites
them for breakfast.
Despite feeling neglected by his husband,
Mother still prepares breakfast for all of
them.
While eating, the strange couple appears to
be intimate with each other and asks them
why they didn't have any kids.
There is a silence for a second, and then
Mother tells them that they are still too
busy to have a child, and the writer supports
her answer immediately.
While the strange couple is away, Mother confronts
Him about how he summons strangers to stay
in their house as long as they want without
asking her permission.
However, the writer just walks away.
Later that day, Mother is left alone with
Woman while her husband and Man go for a hike.
The Woman bothers Mother with many questions
about whether she and Him want children and
why the Mother minds fixing the house instead
of buying a new one.
Based on Mother's expression, the visitor
confirms that it is Him who doesn't want children
and not her.
The Woman even desires to visit the writer's
office, but Mother refuses to let anyone in
without his permission.
They do their laundry, and suddenly, the Woman
asks Mother about the couple's intimate life,
which she doesn't answer.
Woman leaves the room as the tension between
them arises.
After doing her laundry, Mother heads into
the guest room in search of the woman.
Disgusted by the mess of the strange couple,
she fixes their trash and cleans the toilet.
The toilet isn't working, so she plunges it,
and to her surprise, an unknown creature is
stuck in it.
When she pokes it with a stick, blood pops
and she flushes it down the toilet.
While leaving the room, she sees a picture
of her husband inside the Man's luggage.
Meanwhile, the Man has another coughing fit
when they return from the hike.
Mother confronts Him about what she saw inside
the Man's luggage, and Him informs her that
the Man is dying, and he confesses to him
earlier that he and his wife are huge fans
of the writer.
They want to meet Him before it is too late.
At the same time, Man and Woman enter his
office, and the crystal piece is accidentally
shattered.
Him rushes to his office.
Feeling distraught, he orders them to leave.
The writer clutches the broken pieces in his
hands until he bleeds.
On the other hand, Mother tells the couple
to leave, but they go into another room to
have an intimate conversation.
Him, then, finally leaves his office, with
his things covered with cloth.
He knocks out its doorknob and seals the door
with a large piece of wood.
Mother rushes into the guest room to ask them
to leave once more, and the half-dressed Woman
opens it, giving her an unwilling attitude.
The woman says she needs to check her husband
for coughing, and then she slams the door.
A little while later, a young man knocks on
their door.
He says he is looking for her mother, who
is the Woman.
Mother is shocked at how suddenly there are
many strangers in their house.
Another man arrives, who happens to be the
young man's older brother.
They start arguing about their father's will,
and the elder son is enraged at receiving
less than his younger brother.
As the confrontation escalates, the elder
son punches his brother, prompting the writer
to intervene between them, and helps to calm
down the older brother.
However, the quarrel continues as they rush
into the bedroom, where the elder son smacks
his brother's head, causing his skull to crack
and bleed.
Mother witnesses everything as she tries to
stop them from breaking things inside her
house.
With Man and Woman following, the writer picks
up the younger brother and offers to carry
him to the hospital.
Despite Mother's pleas not to leave her alone,
Him insists that he needs to be there, leaving
the traumatized Mother alone.
Fearing that the older brother might come
back, she locks every door in the house.
She cleans up the blood on the floor, but
there's one spot where the stain won't wash
off.
When she presses against it, it begins to
leak blood into the basement.
Mother returns to the basement to check it,
and she notices blood leaking into a light
bulb, which shatters upon switching it on.
Blood splatters on the stone wall forming
an arc-like passageway, which she breaks with
a tool, revealing a smaller dungeon.
When Mother gets through the opening, she
perceives a furnace oil tank.
Suddenly, she hears a glass shatters from
upstairs.
She goes upstairs to check where it came from,
and she sees a scribbled picture of his husband
on the floor and picks it up.
The older son, who has been hiding behind
her, emerges.
He simply takes his wallet and walks out of
the house, wishing her good luck.
She rushes to call for help, but then her
husband comes home.
That night, Him comforts her as he sees how
terrified she is from what happened.
He then informs her that the younger son is
no longer alive.
The writer organizes a wake for the younger
son in their house, with more strangers attending
to pay their respects.
Mother knows that if she protests against
it, he won't listen to her, so she lets them
hold the wake in their house.
She shares her empathy with the Woman, but
the Woman resents her, saying that the Mother
will never understand how she feels for she
doesn't have any child on her own.
More visitors arrive, and she becomes increasingly
irritated by their behavior.
They do not listen to her and keep on invading
their privacy, while some even try to make
love on their bed.
Some visitors would try to flirt with her,
and someone even painted their house without
her permission.
Finally, when the strangers intentionally
break their sink, causing the water to burst,
she snaps out and orders everyone to leave.
Later that night, Mother continues cleaning
up their mess all over the house.
She and the writer argue about their guests
and how selfish he has been in deciding things
without her consent.
Their argument is cut short when they start
having passionate intercourse.
The following day, Mother informs Him that
she believes she is pregnant.
He is delighted and now motivated to resume
his writing.
With the thought that everything will be alright,
now that they're having their child, Mother
throws her yellow drink into the toilet, hoping
that she won't need it anymore.
Several months have passed by, and everything
seems back to normal.
Mother would take care of the house while
her husband is doing his work.
One morning, she runs to her husband to have
a look at the baby bump.
She finds her husband standing on the porch,
holding his finished work.
They are both delighted, and while she is
reading the novel, her eyes signify pure joy
as she imagines his writing.
She sees a vision of them in a deserted burnt
down place, and at the moment he holds her
hand, and everything brings back to life.
She says that the novel is perfect.
However, she wonders if she is going to lose
him.
The Herald, his publisher, rings their phone
to congratulate Him about his work.
He seems busy with his work again while Mother
continues fixing the nursery room and notices
that there's a bloodstain on the floor again.
Time has passed, and Mother is nearing the
end of her pregnancy.
While wearing her flowy white dress, she prepares
dinner in celebration of his husbands’ success.
Suddenly, the writer's fans begin to arrive
outside their house.
The writer seems so ecstatic by the compliments
of his fans, while Mother is worried that
they would invade their place once again.
More and more people arrive at their house.
She panics and locks the door.
She is surprised by a woman who walks in with
her toddler, who has wet his pants.
So, she points them where the bathroom is.
In the bathroom, she notices a man peeing
in the sink, asking for some privacy.
There are strangers everywhere doing the strangest
things she could ever imagine.
Soon, a slew of fans, including the Herald,
arrive at the house, eager to speak with Mother,
whom they have acknowledged as the writer's
inspiration.
Mother feels a pain that causes the house
to shake as a result of their growing presence.
Meanwhile, despite Mother's best efforts to
remain hidden from the crowd, the fans begin
to break and steal items from the house.
On the other hand, fans seem to worship Him
as they fall in line with Him to get marked
by the writer.
He looks happy and seems no remorse towards
what is happening inside their home.
Finally, she manages to get away from the
crowd for a moment, and she sees a vision
of the beating heart that turns into a half-burnt
heart.
She then gathers some of her belongings and
decides to leave the house.
While on her way out, people begin to act
violently toward one another as she moves
around every room.
They continue to destroy their amenities,
and people keep on arriving.
The writer finds her and is surprised that
she is leaving until she is about to give
birth.
They search for a room to allow Mother to
give birth when suddenly a cop shows up a
disperses pepper spray in their eyes, breaking
them apart.
She continues searching for Him.
She then ends up in a room where people lie
down, hand-cuffed, and their heads are covered
with bags.
The Herald casually shoots their heads and
as they calmy converses with her.
Suddenly, a massive blast that rips through
the room kills the Herald.
As she walks through the dead bodies, a S.W.A.T.
team arrives, battling the growing horde of
fans.
A soldier helps Mother to locate a safe place.
Unfortunately, someone shoots him, leaving
Mother behind.
Afterward, the Mother looks frail as she is
about to give birth anytime.
She crawls over the remains of strangers when
all of a sudden, Him appears.
He picks her up, and they search for a place
where she could give birth.
Upon their searching, they find a room full
of sick people as if they are experiencing
a plague.
A woman recognizes the writer and worships
Him, drawing all the attention on them.
Finally, He takes her to his office, where
she gives birth to a son.
The moment their baby begins his first cry,
the clamors of people outside ends.
There is silence for a while.
He heads out to check what is happening, but
he comes back with a fruit basket given by
the people.
He tells her that the people are waiting for
him, which annoys her, and asks Him to let
them go, but he refuses.
His desire to hold his son is strong, but
the Mother won’t allow him to do so unless
he dismisses his fans.
Mother spends the entire day in the office
with her son, holding him near her chest while
her husband is right there waiting for her
to fall asleep.
When she wakes up, the baby is gone.
He brings their son to show the audience,
and they begin passing the baby around.
The baby is crying out loud, as well as the
Mother as she is apprehensive about him.
Suddenly, the crowd breaks the baby’s neck.
Mother hears it and rushes in front of the
room in a panic.
When she arrives, she discovers that her baby
has been mutilated and eaten by the fans.
Mother screams angrily, causing the foundation
of the house to crack.
She snatches a piece of glass and begins stabbing
and slashing them until their leader grabs
her and whacks her in the head with a candlestick.
The fans brutally strike her and tear off
her clothes, calling her names.
The writer rushes in to stop them, sobbing
as he holds his wife.
Mother screams at Him, accusing Him of butchering
their child.
He continues to defend his fans, causing an
outburst from Mother.
Then, her vision of a half-burnt-heart turns
into a wholly burnt one.
Meanwhile, Mother dashes down the stairs to
the basement, where she finds the oil tank.
Before taking out a lighter, she breaks it
open and lets the oil flow out.
Him begs Mother not to do anything, but she
refuses and throws the lighter in it.
Before everything around the house explodes,
the entire house bursts into flames, burning
everyone inside into ashes.
Still, Him and Mother make it out alive, but
Mother is severely burned while the writer
remains unharmed.
Mother's body is carried out by Him, which
prompts her to ask who he is.
He tells him he is taking her to the beginning,
but he needs her love to start over.
Despite everything that happened, Mother still
loves Him.
He digs his hands to her chest and pulls out
her heart, shattering her body into burnt
ashes.
He crushes the heart in his hands, revealing
a crystal piece similar to the previous one.
He chuckles to himself as he places it in
the same spot in the ruins of his office.
The house transforms from ruined to brand
new once more.
A young woman forms in the bed, calling out
to her husband, exclaiming, "Baby?”
Like many stories before, this represents
something bigger than it is.
This story is an allegory about Mother Nature
and the destruction that she’s experiencing,
based heavily upon passages from the Bible.
It begins with Mother being born from the
fire, representing Mother Nature herself.
She looks for her husband, Him, the representation
of the Creator or God himself.
In this case, the house can be seen as a representation
of the Earth.
Mother is seen constantly caring and fixing
up the house, just as Mother Nature is constantly
growing and building the Earth as a paradise.
This paradise comes to an end when Man suddenly
shows up, who is a big fan of Him and his
book.
Him lets him in but doesn’t allow Man into
his study and forbids him to touch the crystal.
In this part, Man represents Adam who has
come to Earth and reading the Bible, worshipping
Him, or God.
Him’s study represents the Garden of Eden
where the crystal sits as the Forbidden Fruit.
Woman, representing Eve, arrives and makes
herself comfortable in the house.
When she sneaks into the study, this represents
Eve being tempted by the Forbidden Fruit.
Man and Woman manage to touch the crystal
and break it.
Him is furious and asks them to leave.
This represents Adam and Eve falling into
temptation and being banished from the Garden
of Eden by God.
The two brothers soon arrive, representing
the biblical brothers, Cain and Abel.
They argue and one brother eventually ends
up killing the other.
The guilty brother leaves the house.
This is parallel to Cain killing his brother,
Abel, and leaving his home to wander for life.
As they mourn the brother’s death, more
people arrive at the house and start misbehaving.
This represents how humans are now abusing
Mother Earth.
The water flooding the house signifies the
Great Flood that washed out the first humans
off the Earth.
Mother becomes pregnant, but more of Him’s
fans storm the house, continually destroying
what Mother has built.
The people don’t care as they are too busy
worshipping Him.
This means the continuous growth of humans
has lead to even further destruction of the
Earth.
They are too busy preaching the words without
doing all of the actions needed.
A soldier tries to help Mother but he is killed.
This represents the actual people trying to
make a difference but is defeated by the overwhelming
population.
Mother gives birth to a baby boy, a representation
of the birth of Jesus.
Mother has given a new gift to the people,
but they abuse him.
Just like in Jesus’s story, instead of following
his words, the people crucify him, leading
to his death.
Mother becomes furious and starts killing
off people.
This signifies Mother Nature giving back all
the destruction that humans have given her.
The house ends up burning everyone including
Mother, except for Him.
He rips out her heart and takes the crystal
from within.
Him reconstructs everything, forming a new
Mother, thus continuing the never-ending cycle
of beginnings and endings.